---
title: "Release 4.5.0"
date: 2024-10-20
---

Wow, the major Firefox ESR update brings the two Firefox versions mainly in sync. I was able to remove many switches
and also many tests are now producing similar results. And as always it is nice to see that Chrome and Firefox are comming closer.

Besides the usual code cleanup and improvements I did also some work to make parts of the html processing faster. Therfore
some expensive copy operations done during the transformation of the dom tree from neko into the Htmlunit world are removed.
I already got the feedback from one user who faces some positive effects from this change.

While working on #886 also some code minor optimizations found there way into the codebase.

Many thanks to [CryDeb](https://github.com/CryDeb) for the detaild bug report (#88l). I really appriciate all the analysis you did
for finding this race condition and also the hints/discussion about the fix.

I love Archunit - have done another rule that check if we really return JS-Rhino compatible objects from our getter and functions.
And yes this lead to a huge ToDo list.

And now something completely different, spend one day (while waiting for different release builds) on profiling the DOM tree construction.
Found some minor things but also another bunch of code that is no longer required. Hopefully the whole work will have at least some
minor effect on your test suite performance.

And finally the release 4.5.0 is out. Fingers crossed!

Stay tuned

RBRi